
##1. To Coawood
When the part sets out to leave, in addition to the wargs that they should return, he will also give them a "small" reward for their help.
2000gp

Javelin of Lightning: This javelin becomes a 5d6 lightning bolt when thrown (Reflex DC 14 half ). It is consumed in the attack.
Faint evocation; CL 5th; Craft Magical Arms and Armor, lightning bolt; Price 1,500 gp; Cost 750 gp + 30 XP.

Ring of Mystic Healing (Lesser): This steel ring glimmers with a faint golden light.
A ring of mystic healing provides a boost to your healing spells. When casting cure spells, you gain a +1 competence bonus to your caster level. This is a continuous effect and requires no activation.
In addition, once per day you gain a bonus to damage you heal. The next cure spell you cast before the end of your turn heals an additional +2d6.
Activation: — and swift (command)
Faint conjuration; CL 5th; Forge Ring, cure serious wounds; Price 1,500 gp; Cost 750 gp + 30 XP.

Heading to Coawood from the south-east instead of the south-west like normal you come across a large graveyard outside the city. From this side you can barely see across (toward the city) and you can't across it the other direction. Looking closer to you, you see rows of tombstones standing erect in silence. With the recent talk of undead you think of the sea of dead contained here. Just as you start to panic you realize that this cemetary looks more like a park, standing in stark contrast to the images you just had flashing through your mind. There's gravel walkways that wind between tall tress, well-tended beds of shrubs and flowers, sturdy masoleums, monuments, and statues.
Amidst it all is a building that was once a beacon of its age, but now resembles something much more utilitarian. Nothing dramatic has befallen it, just the passing of centuries. As time went on the upkeepers obviously cared more about keeping it in good condition than they did about making it pretty or majestic. Still though, compared to it's age you would consider the building to be in good shape.
After a moment's look you notice a man and a woman dressed in simple home-spun gray robes, they are talking to a rather angry sounding man who is wearing well polished plate armor and waving his hands around violently.
Please sir, calm down, this is a place of respect. I can assure you that your fears are unfounded.
UNFOUNDED YOU SAY!!! Trust me buddy, I lost men to those things, and you are working with that monster to harbor them!
Sir, if you could please calm down and explain what happened. I don't know what happened to your friends, but we are not working with any monsters or harboring anything.
If approached the two workers (Dalton & Pippa) will quickly direct the party to Doomguide Glandon
At this point the party could either follow the workers urging and go straight to Doomguide Glandon, or they could insist on talking with Narbud.
Narbud is terrified of his recent encounter with the undead, he is convinced that they are currently standing on an undead minefield. He has encountered Zeeaz on the battlefield before and knew that he was a Cleric of Cerix, the God Murder, there's no way it's a coincidence that undead started appearing when a cleric of murder appeared in the area, so he ordered the attack on the Goblins. Dunben just sent him out to gather information.
He will not believe the party at first, but if they mention that they were attacked by undead he will want more information and will immediately head to the "necromancers hole" if the mention it. Once he knows they were attacked he will concede that he should do a better job of gathering some more information before he reports back to Dunben.
After Narbud leaves the workers will again direct the party to Doomguide Glandon, knowing that he is looking for adventurers to clear out the undead.
##2. Doomguide Glandon
Doomguide is the title adopted by head clerics among the faithful of Kelemvor, the diety of death and the dead. "Doom" refers not to a bleak destiny but simply to the fact that all mortals face an end to life. Kelemvor's servants ensure that the dead are properly interred and respected, and they see to the needs of the bereaved. To most of Kelemvor's faithful, raising a dead person as an undead creature is the most horrific sacrilege imaginable and an unforgivable violation of human sanctity.
Doomguide Yovir Glandon is a thin, middle-aged, human male. He has a shaved head and a well trimmed beard that's streaking with gray. Similar to the folks outside he has a simple unadorned grass-stained grey robe. He is currently sweeping out some leaves that have made their way inside. As you approach he stops and turns to look at you,
Hello there, what service can Kelemvor's Faithful provide for you today?
Yovir lets the party bring up the subject of the undead themselves. While they haven't made any official announcements in Coawood yet, he is just as aware of the rumors going around as he is that he really does have an undead problem. The appearence of an adventuring party is not too surprising to him nor is it hard for him to guess what they want.
Within the last 100 years, Valhingen Graveyard has gone from being overrun with undead to the statuesque place of rest that it is today. This is due primarily to the work of the Kelemvorites. Their order may have strengthened and waned many times over the centuries, but recently we have done well. Our concerns started about a month ago when a novice disappeared, I wasn't too concerned at first, our way of life is not the most glamorous and he would not be the first novice to run off. But then Brother Rasoran, an experienced Kelemvorite vanished. It wasn't conceivable to me that hje would just run off, he was a good friend and had been string in the faith for nearly 10 years. Then a week ago Sister Bethel disappeared and was later found... partially eaten. I'm sure that undead are again active in the catacombs below this graveyard.
I and a few others have investigated the oldest known sections of the catacombs and have found nothing. The catacombs are vast however. We have sealed them off as a precaution however.
Yovir can reward 500 gold pieces and a set of "Googles of Night".
Yovir asks that the adventureres do not dsiturb the resting dead within the catacombs and let their possesions be. Theft from the dead is not tolerated.
The catacombs are extensivce, and Yovir offers the service of a guide if the part so desires it (Cassyt)
A plain looking female half-elf enters the room. She appears to be in her early twenties, has glasses that seem to big for her head. She has a smile on her face and a small bump to her step that lets you know she is happy.
Cassyt is a young Kelemvorite who has spent more time in her books than in the catacombs of the graveyard. Despite this, she has an unusually sunny disposition and is prone to chatter incessantly rattling off minutiae and trivia about the catacombs. She also has a dry, albeit warped, sense of humor.
##3. The Depths Within
Back behind the main building you are in is a stone structure that resembles the many mausoleums in the graveyard, except this building has no door, just an open archway. Inside is a small paved floor that opens into a wide stone staircase. The building is little more than a covering over the stairs.
Descending down the stairs you notice that although the catacombs are all excavated from earth and solid stone, the tunnels look nothing like a mine. Most walls and ceilings are either faced with smooth stone or have decorative features such as faux pillars, ledges, geometric designs, and scenes of life or religious themes carved into the stone. Also lined along the walls are loculi (niches) that contain either a single body or the stacked bones of many bodies. None of the crypts you've seen so far have been very interesting, containg no treasure, items, or clues. Just bodily remains.
Going deeper you leave the range of the surface light and realize just how dark it is down here. There is regular niches carved into the walls for placing lanterns, but there are no lanterns there. Cassyt explains that the Kelemvorites bring lanterns down with them when they plan on working down here.
As the talking dies down you notice that the catacombs deaden sound very effectively. For lack of a better phrase, the catacombs are, as silent as the grave. Occasionally, dripping water can be heard. The occasional shafts drill in the cieling to the surface lets in a small amount of light and air but also sometimes produces an unsettling sound akin to moaning or whistling. Cassyt comments on it and adds that it is not unheard of to hear distant crying while in the catacombs, but it is attributed to those on in the graveyard, above, mourning their dead instead of any malevolence within the catacombs.
##4. The Cloister of Kelemvor (A)
The base of the stairs opens into a large, irregularly-shaped chamber. Stone ledges are carved along most of the walls to serve as tables. The far wall of this room is covered with a huge fresco. The painted tiles portraying people from every race and walk of life, arranged with no sense of perspective or relative scale. The design has suffered heavy damage from water seepage and mildew over the centuries.
The recently deceased can be placed on any of several stone biers for viewing by family members and friends before they are carried deeper into the catacombs for interment.
Anyone who examines the fresco and succeeds at a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check sees it for what it truly is—a century-old map of the catacombs. This is hard to recognize, however, due to the damage and the lack of any consistent scale.
##5. Funerary Banquet Hall (B & C)
This banquet hall is surprisingly pleasant when considering its location. Many colored lanterns and small incense burners are lit. The long tables are boards lain over a pair of trestles fashioned of wood planks, with benches for seating. A smaller room in the southern corner of the hall is sealed with a locked iron gate.
Many families hold funeral banquets when their loved ones are interred. Middle class and wealthy families prefer to rent a banquet room in an inn or host the banquet in their homes, but the faithful of Kelemvor don't charge for use of this room, so it's popular with poorer families in Coawood.
The small room or closet turns out to be a shaft down to another chamber. A set of block and tackle hang from the ceiling of the shaft; likely for lowering dead bodies to the chamber below; and handholds have been chiseled into the wall. This shaft descends into a chamber (labeled "C" on the map) used by the clergy to prepare bodies for interment.
##6. The First Families of Coawood (D)
This series of crypts has doorways sealed by locked iron grates. Within you see scenes of normal daily life: richly-dressed people seated around dining tables, or at writing desks, or in luxurious chairs. All of this would be completely normal, except that all of the participants in the macabre dioramas are the skeletal remains of the affluent—carefully posed and interred among their favorite possessions.
These crypts are reserved for the wealthy and the powerful: successful merchants, political leaders, military officers, and their families. They have an almost museum-like quality.
Because of this area's attraction to thieves, every iron grate is double-locked and warded. Doomguide Yovir Glandon has the only keys for the locks. Picking a lock requires a successful DC 15 Dexterity check using a set of thieves' tools.
Opening or attempting to open one of the locks with anything other than the proper key sets off a magic mouth spell that intones, "Think twice on what you are about to do, friend. Your trespass has been noted." In fact, there is no other alarm and the magic mouth spell doesn't alert the faithful of Kelemvor to the breakin.
TREASURE
If the characters decide to break in to the crypts, they can collect 100 gp worth of easily-pocketed jewelry, and another 200 gp worth of bulky, but valuable, clothing from each.
The Kelemvorites, however, notice within a few days should any small items be taken. And as the catacombs
have recently been sealed, the adventurers are likely the prime suspects. The Kelemvorites notice characters trying removing bulky items from the catacombs immediately upon exiting.
Cassyt will inform Doomguide Glandon if she sees any of the adventurers take any of the treasure belonging to
the dead.
##7. The Bone Pit (E)
A circular pit nearly fills this chamber, leaving only a foot-wide pathway between the edge of the pit and the wall. The pit is filled to about five feet below the lip with humanoid bones. A narrow walkway hugging the walls is the only path through the chamber. Narrow niches in the walls are filled with carefully placed bones, baubles, and other similar items.
Cassyt doesn't want to talk about why some bones were thrown here while other were store more respectfully in loculi and orderly ossuaries. Her normally bright demeanor darkens if the subject is brought up and she will try to skirt the subject. The truth is that long ago a chapter of Kelemvorites apostacised and gave up the dead to demons in exchange for power. She is not aware of any specifics of the practice.
The encircling pathway is only about a foot wide. To walk the path without falling into the pit requires a successful DC 5 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. Falling into the jagged bones in the pit causes 3 (ld6) points of piercing damage.
Falling into the pit and the subsequent struggle to get out makes enough noise to alert the ghouls who are
hiding in area F. If the adventurers end up not proceeding into area F, their presence is known by the ghouls, who stalk them and attack them during their next fight.
##8. Demon Cult (F)
The smell of wood smoke is overpowering in this room, and every surface is stained jet black with soot that must have come from the two great iron braziers on the floor. The walls are lined with almost perfectly preserved bodies—black from the same soot that stains the walls. They might almost be mistaken for mummified drow were it not for the different colors of hair.
Several corpses, however, have been ravaged by something. They lay in the center of the room, torn apart, their flesh and bones gnawed by some ravenous creature.
The preserved bodies drew two hungry ghouls to this area, and they're still present, hidden among the corpses. They hid among the bodies when they heard the characters approaching (make a single Dexterity (Stealth) check with a +4 bonus). Any adventurer who's passive Wisdom (Perception) score exceeds the result of their Dexterity (Stealth) check notices the ghouls. Upon realizing that they have been discovered, the ghouls attack. Otherwise, they attack at the most advantageous moment if no one spots them. If the adventurers do not venture further into the room, the ghouls attempt to stalk the adventurers and attack them during their next fight.
Not obvious at first glance, but after the fight with the ghouls the body pile has been disturbed enough to reveal that they were piled up on a ritual circle.

Skill Challenge 4/2 CR4 DC 15/15/20/25
Each success reveals more information about what was going on here:
This was a ritual of summon planar ally
Specifically this was attempting to summon a specific demon by name, but the rune representing the name has since been scratched too much to read
This ritual wasn't designed to run solely on power provided by the casters, it's somehow pulling arcane energy from another source
There is a ley line tendril, a small bit of power that broke off centuries ago and is almost exhausted running under this chamber

##9. Rickety Stairs (G)
The passage descends by shallow stone steps to a 15-foot by 15-foot square room. Wooden stairs wind around the walls of the shaft down into the darkness. The stairs look as though they are ancient, and the wood rotted and scratched. They wind around a tall statue of a strange, four-armed humanoid with vaguely insectoid features. It clutches a scroll in one hand, a quill in a second, a skull in a third, while the fourth is empty.
Cassyt seems concerned upon seeing the weakened stairs, wondering what could have happened to them, it's true that it's been about a month since she last come through here, but her fellow Kelemvorites must have come through more recently than that and even a month is too short a time for wood to rot like this.
The floor of the room is about 20 feet below that of the hallway leading into it, and the steps are about 3 feet wide. The stairs are also on the verge of collapse. Each character who uses the steps must make a DC 10 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check at the midpoint of the stairs as they descend or ascend. An unsuccessful check causes 5 points of damage to the stairs. If the check succeeds, no damage is dealt to the stairs.
The staircase collapses when it accumulates 10 points of damage, dropping everyone on it to the floor of the
room. Any character who is on the stairs when they collapse suffers 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage and falls prone.
As you descend the stair they groan loudly under your weight. With every step from Blizzard it sounds like a scream of death from the remaining rotted wood in the stairs. Splinters and small chunks fall from the stairs, landing on the floor below.
The noise of the collapsing stairs draws the attention of the zombies in Area 7 who come to investigate the disturbance. On the plus side, the collapse leaves plenty of handholds and footholds where wooden posts were set into the stone, so the walls can be climbed with a successful DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check. The DC of this check is lowered to 5 if the adventurers also use a rope to climb.
Any adventurer succeeding at a DC 10 Intelligence (Religion) check identifies the statue at the bottom as that of Jergal, an ancient deity charged with recording the disposition of the souls and guarding the tombs of the dead.
##10. The Lower Catacombs
The catacombs beyond this point are hundreds of years old and starting to show their age.
The walls and ceilings of this section of the catacombs are old and in poor repair. While damaged walls or ceiling won't collapse under normal conditions, under certain circumstances, they collapse. If a character casts thunderwave or another ability with a similar effect, the intense vibrations trigger a collapse.
Falling stonework causes 4 (1d8) bludgeoning damage to each creature in the room where the spell is cast. This damage is halved if the creature succeeds at a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw.
##11. Sun Pit (H)
If the zombies are still in this room: Coming to this room you hear banging on wood and stone. And moaning, long low growls from a creature that doesn't sit right with you. The smell of rotting flesh wafts from around corner. Making the turn you see 4 zombies trying to break down a door on the far end of the room. As though sensing your presence, two of them turn around and shamble towards you.
During the fight you notice that the zombie have pieces of wood impaled in them, big splinters coming from their hands and under their fingernails.
This square room is approximately 20 feet across. The ceiling, far above, is capped with iron grates through which the sky above can be seen. Shackles are bolted to the walls and an iron lockbox is fastened to the wall. The lid to the lockbox is open, revealing a number of wooden stakes. Though it is difficult to be sure through the rust, a hinged lock in the grate above seems to be open and a length of rope ending in a grappling hook lays in a heap on the floor in front of you beside a short, rusted iron bar.
A couple of thieves have broken into the catacombs. When the last of them was climbing down, the bar that the grappling hook was hanging from broke loose and sent one of them falling the last 10 feet and worse yet,alerting a pack of zombies to their presence. They took refuge in Area I.
##12. Crematoria Niches (I)
The walls of this long room bear hundreds upon hundreds of niches; most of which bear a small urn or box, and a trinket or two. An elf, a tiefling and a hiccupping half-orc crouch on the far side of the room, clutching swords in their shaking hands.
This room is used to house people whose remains have been cremated; a practice that only recently came into fashion.
Specifically chosen for the job because they possess darkvision, they originally snuck into the catacombs two days ago to investigate the rumors of undead, but couldn't resist pilfering some of the items in the room. By the time they realized that their activities attracted the attention of some roaming zombies, it was too late; they barred the door and have been waiting here ever since. They planned rather poorly and between them had only a single flask of rather potent whiskey. Upon realizing that they were trapped, the spy refused to share the whiskey with the elf and the tiefling, and has been well-and-truly drunk ever since.
The Welcomers are initially relieved to found by the party and beg the adventurers for whatever food or water they have. The half-orc is doubly pleased and offers everyone within reach an awkward (and rather smelly) hug.
Any character succeeding at a DC 1O Wisdom (Perception) check notices that each of the Welcomers has a few trinkets stuffed into their pockets. The adventurers can persuade the Welcomers into leaving the treasures behind with a successful DC 15 Charisma (Intimidation or Persuasion). If unsuccessful, nothing short of force is going to deter them from keeping the treasure.
Cassyt will inform Doomguide Glandon id she sees any of the adventurers take any of the treasure belonging to the dead.
##13. The Escape
The Welcomers want to leave the catacombs, preferably via the way they entered, and will try to persuade the party to help them. They do not want the Kelemvorites knowing that they were down here. However, if faced with choosing between leaving out the front door and staying in the catacombs, they choose the former and upon leaving the catacombs are confronted by the Kelemvorites.
If the adventurers decide to help the Welcomers sneak out, they not only need to secure a line up, but they also need to come up with a way to get the half-orc out as he is clearly in no state to make the climb. The adventurers can use the grappling hook and hook it to the grate above with a successful DC 15 Strength or Dexterity check. Once the grappling hook is secure or the adventurers have otherwise secured a rope to the grate above, the elf and the tiefling climb out with no problem. The half-orc can't, however, and needs to be hauled up. Because they are not on the best of terms with the stingy half-orc, the elf and the tiefling are unwilling to wait for him to sober up. They will provide a limited amount of help to the adventurers to haul the half-orc up if they ask for it. Between the three of them, they possess the following equipment:
Three, 50 ft. lengths of hempen rope;
Two sets of thieves' tools;
A bag of ball bearings; and
A nearly empty flask of rather potent whiskey.

If the adventurers think to ask Cassyt for helps, she thinks for a moment and then remembers that the Kelemvorites used a block and tackle in the Banquet Hall to lower bodies into the catacombs.
A character must succeed on two successive DC 15 Strength checks in order to hoist the half-orc spy up to the grate above. If they are using the block and tackle from area B, this check is made with advantage. The elf and the tiefling refuse to help pull.
Cassyt: If the adventurers help the Welcomers sneak out, Cassyt is naturally upset. However, she is young and relatively naive, and can be persuaded to keep mum about it with a successful DC 10 Charisma (Persuasion) check. Feel free to award advantage on this check for especially creative roleplaying.
TREASURE
The Welcomers have looted a total of 80 gp in various types of plundered trinkets and art objects. They also carry 80 gp in coins of their own. An additional 50 gp worth of coins and trinkets can be further pilfered from the niches that the Welcomers didn't empty.
##14. Obelisk (J)
The walls of this semi-circular chamber are lined with nearly a hundred loculi, each containing the bones of one or more deceased residents of Coawood. An obelisk stands in the center of the chamber. Its four faces are covered in mysterious runes.
The carvings are in Celestial and use its intricate, flowing script. The language can be identified only with at least a minute's study and a successful DC 15 Intelligence (History) check.
Most of the writing tells the stories of men and woman in life performing heroic deeds, you assume those are the people buried here. One side of the obelisk however is taken up by a single legend.
It says: In the passing of the great war we mourn the loss Demonrage Haveron, he will be missed. While many a hero was born of late, none have done more for the survival of mankind. Haveron may not be remember as a hero among the dragon war, but unbenowst to the world her fought and even worse foe. A dastardly and cunning demon who sought to bring his master Orcus into this world. While the world won't remember Haveron, we will.
Manaroth was born into this world by the death and destruction that had befallen it. The great powers of the dragon were not only destroying the world, but were soon to destroy all. Manaroth had found a place of great magical power, a place said to contain the power of magic itself, perhaps even the power of the gods! He collected this power into a pool and bathed himself in it, using himself as a catalyst to summon his master.
But! Haveron knew of his plan, and attacked! He fought a long and hard battle with Manaroth, knowing that this fight would take his life he still fought on, knowing that no man could survive the power of the pool, still he pressed forward. Knowing that this demon was a foe beyond him, still he believed. And just as all seemed lost, just as expected the demon would win, Haveron gained a sliver of the pools power and severed the demons head as he gloated in his victory. But Haveron never knew, as soon as he swung his sword he had died, taking the demon and saving the world, may he know on the other side of our gratitude.
##15. Skeletal Ceiling (K)
The walls in this section are lined with burial niches containing skeletons, as in other areas of the catacombs, but skeletons also stare down at you from the ceiling where they were set into shallow plaster. Some arm bones, leg bones, and skulls have cracked free and fallen to the floor, but most remain in the positions and poses they were given ages ago.
Prisiera Monforoth animated five skeletons in the ceiling as guardians where they've remained quietly in the ceiling for more than a week. As the adventurers pass beneath them, the skeletons break free from the plaster and drop down to attack.
On the first round only two of the skeletons drop down
On the second round two more drop into the fight in locations where they directly threaten characters who try to avoid melee.
On the third round the final skeleton drops down on whoever appears to be faring the worst.
##16. Talking Dead (L)
Niches near the floor are filled with stacked bones, and skulls are neatly arranged about six inches apart along the greater part of the wall. Above the skulls the wall bears an inscription, partially obscured by centuries of accumulated dust and cobwebs.
The inscription can be read if the debris is cleared away. It states, in archaic Common, "A question speak you, and answer will these departed."
The dead in this section of the catacombs were interred at a time when people considered it desirable to be able to speak at will with their deceased ancestors per an enchantment resembling speak with dead. As with that spell, they know nothing about events that transpired after their deaths, so the skulls can't answer questions about what's been happening in the catacombs recently. They may recall lore about the catacombs that they knew in life, however, and some of that could include things even the faithful of Kelemvor don't know.
More than one skull responds to most questions, and sometimes their answers are contradictory, just as any group of people's would be. The spell that compels these spirits to talk is ancient and fading, and the spirits themselves are only weakly held to this place. They cease responding to the characters' inquiries after they've answered five questions.
##17. The Tomb of Sedrair II (M)
A mummified figure in magnificent apparel sits on a throne inlaid with ivory and semiprecious stones. It holds a golden dagger in its right hand and a balance in its left. A crown of gold and tarnished silver seems to float above its head. The whole scene is draped in cobwebs.
In life, this was Sedrair II, one of the richer (and more eccentric) grander nobles of Coawood centuries ago. Paranoid even in death, her crown is warded against theft by a clever glyph.
The balance is the type with two pans suspended from a lightweight beam. A secret compartment in the chair holds a box Of weights; the compartment can be noticed with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. The scales are not in balance when the adventurers arrive, due to the accumulation of dust and debris over the ages, but it really doesn't matter—rebalancing the pans with the hidden weights or anything else does nothing.
The crown is not floating above the skull but is suspended by thin wires ending in small hooks. Cobwebs camouflage the wires; they are noticed only by adventurers who succeed at a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. The wires are linked to the glyph, which is triggered if the weight on the wires increases or decreases by more than a few ounces. The trap is a glyph of warding that causes 9 (2d8) lightning damage to everyone in the chamber; a successful DC 13 Dexterity saving throw halves the damage.
Clever characters might try to neutralize the trap using the weights from the throne. This can be done, but it's tricky. With a successful DC 20 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check, the crown can be removed by replacing it with weights. A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check beforehand allows the adventurer to approximate the weight of the crown; granting advantage on the Dexterity check. Failure on the Dexterity check sets off the trap.
TREASURE
Sedrair's crown is worth 500 gp if it's recovered without setting off the trap; if the trap goes off, damage from the lightning reduces its value to just 50 gp. The fine set of weights is worth 120 gp if complete and the balance accompanies it. The weights alone are worth 80 gp if complete or 10 gp if some of the weights were left behind. The golden dagger is only plating over soft metal; it's worth 12 gp, and it's useless as a weapon. Other semiprecious stones and filigree that can be collected from the throne have a total value of 80 gp.
Cassyt will inform Doomguide Glandon if she sees any of the adventurers take any of the treasure from Sedrair's Tomb.
##18. Crime Scenes (N)
This area has displays similar to those previously in the catacombs, but with one major difference. Where the previous displays were pleasant depictions of daily life, these are nightmares come to life. In one crypt, the skeletons of three, very young children are posed as if they are strangling a grown man, while another portrays five people holding a skeletal man in a chair and "pouring" something from a greasy, brown vial down his throat.
Piles of dirt and rubble have been deposited around the room.
Just as important political, social, and religious figures from Phlan's history are immortalized in areas 3 and 4, some of its worst criminals are immortalized here. In this case, however, the roles of murderer and victim have been reversed.
The "victims" in these vignettes committed mass murder or other atrocious crimes, and their "killers" were their victims in life. Here, the victims were allowed their eternal revenge. This practice fell out of fashion long ago in Coawood, so no new burials have been added here in over a century.
The piles cover up a hole drilled in the stone floor. Buried beneath the floor about 2 feet down is a small crystal. An attuning crystal for the Necromancer trying to tap into the power of the tendril.
##19. The Necropolis and Beyond (O)
It's as if you've entered a subterranean city. The crypts here are modeled after surface homes and other buildings, although they're only about two-thirds the size of their real counterparts. Coming from somewhere to your left, you hear sounds of scratching and scraping. How far off it's coming from is very difficult to judge in these tunnels.
This section of the catacombs is where most new interments take place. As such, Cassyt and other faithful of Kelemvor are more familiar with it than with other areas. A thousand untold secrets exist in this place. It stretches for hundreds of feet beneath the surface; a person could explore its depths for days and not see all that it contains.
Rumor has it that the hidden tomb of Rhamaex, a legendary sorcerer of old that helped found Stormpieke is within this section of the catacombs, though no one has claimed to have found it.
As it is now, however, the Necropolis is infested with undead. For each hour that the adventurers spend wandering the area, roll Id4 and consult the Wandering Monsters table to determine what the party meets. If the adventurers spend enough time down here to come across all three encounters, they do not encounter any others. Additionally, Doomguide Yovir does not ask for their assistance in clearing the rest of the catacombs.
1. 2 Ghouls
2. 4 Zombies
3. 4 Skeletons
4. Nothing
Each hour of searching comes with a 10% chance of discovering Rhaemax's tomb
##20. Rhaemax's Tomb
As you step into this tomb it feels different from the others. The outside was just the same, but inside is devoid of dust. A small hand broom seems to constantly go around sweeping as if by its own accord. A stone casket lay in the back of the room, made of pristine white marble, two purple gems affixed to the left and right sides.
Arcane runes are written along the seal to the casket and a circle of runes surrounds it. Bookshelves line one wall, seemingly untouched by the ages spent in here. In fact, nothing in here gives you a feel for how long it has been. You get the feeling of being in an ancient place, but everything is so clean and preserved that it could have been placed in here yesterday.
The arcane runes along the floor are just there for decoration, they serve no function other than to make the palce feel more magical and to scare any would be thieves. They light up and spin around the circle if any creature attempts to go within the circle and continue to do so as long as a creature is within the circle.
The runes along the seal however are live and have to affects. The first is they are a Glyph of Suggestion: suggesting that the target not open the casket and leave the tomb, never to return. The second is a Glyph of Mass Teleportation. Only 3 uses were bound into the runes and only 1 remains. Any attempt to open the casket after overcoming the Suggestion trigger this glyph, which teleports everyone within the tomb to a random location within the catacombs and teleports the tomb itself to a second random location within the catacombs.
The hand broom is only magical within this tomb will actively try to stay within the tomb. If removed by force the moment it leaves the tomb the magic animating it is rendered inert, and it becomes an ordinary broom until it is brought within the tomb again.
TREASURE
If they choose to remove the gems from the side of the casket, they can get them out with a DC 20 Intelligence or Dexterity (Gemmaking or Slieght of Hand) check. They are amethysts worth 2500 gp each.
Most of the books are history or general knowledge books of the time (1000 years ago (This wasn't Rhaemax's first live, just one of many that he lived among humans)) not worth much on their own and you would probably get better scientific information from the local library. The history books would fascinate the right person however.
There is a Wizards Spellbook however that contains every 1st level spell within it. Approximate retail value of 5000 gp just on materials value, closer to 20,000 gp when factoring in rare or lost spells contained within. Maybe 40k gp to the right buyer with proof that it was Rhaemax's.
Also contained on the bookshelves is an Akashic Tome. An Akashic Tome is a book of book. It can contain a large number of books within it and as a standard action can become any book that it contains by naming it.
Akashic Tome: A well made leather bound book that appears at first glance to be rather ordinary. It has a strap of brass hardware and buckles to bind it shut, almost like a diary might. Upon opening it you find every page within it blank. There is no title to it, there is no ink at all within this book.
An Akashic Tome can absorb any book that it is placed against with a command word. Once absorbed the The Tome can take the form of that book, no matter what size or shape, as a standard action by speaking the name of the book followed by the command word.
An Akashic Tome is not limited to one book however! It can hold up to 1,000 books within it. It's a traveling library in your pocket.
A book can be removed from the tomb by speaking a command word while the tome has taken the shape of the book.

Moderate conjuration; CL 9th; Craft Wondrous Item, secret chest; Price 2,000 gp;Weight 2 lb.

##21. The Sentry (P)
The Necromancer Prisiera Monforoth and her Cult of Orcus accomplices have taken this portion of the catacombs as their temporary base of operations. she has a modest contingent of undead gathered here. A group of four zombies stand guard just inside (see second map specifically for this area). In addition, an imp sentinel is here, sitting in a chair, sound asleep.
This room is littered with rubble and freshly turned earth. Sitting next to a barrel next to an opening on the far side of the wall, is an imp dozing quietly in a small wooden chair.
A sneaky adventurer can attack him while he is still asleep, provided that they are not seen by the zombies. The first missed attack wakes the imp who immediately starts shouting, initiating combat.
Upon seeing the adventurers, the imp wants nothing more than to run into area Q to warn the cultist fanatic and Prisiera. If the imp is alive when his turn arrives, read:
The imp grabs his sword and runs through the opening yipping excitedly. Beyond the opening, you can hear raised voices and the telltale sound of swords being drawn from scabbards.
If the imp is slain without having the chance to raise the alarm, the zombies attack as normal. If the imp raises the alarm, the Thayans and cultists in area Q begin preparing immediately. Otherwise, they are alarmed by the sounds of the adventurers combating the zombies and begin their preparation on the following round.
TACTICS
The imp's only job is to make as much noise as possible when it sees someone that shouldn't be there.
As usual, the zombies simply mob the adventurers.
##22. "Prisiera" The Necromancer (Q)
Even at first glance, it is obvious that people have been living in this room for a long while. There are a number of straw pallets and even a pair of beds. Across the room, a woman in embroidered red robes with a crow on her shoulder is hurriedly stuffing items into a haversack. As she sees you, she spits out a curse and shouts for her minions to attack.
The fight with the zombies in area P has given Prisiera the time to prepare her escape via a teleportation circle. Prisiera is accompanied by a knight (K) and a cultist (C), along with a ghoul (G). If the adventurers
spend 4 rounds or more fighting the zombies in area P, the Thayan knight or the cultist is invisible when
the adventurers arrive (see Prisiera's Flight, below).
Prisiera'S FLIGHT
Each round that the adventurers spend fighting the zombies in area P, is a round that Prisiera has to pack away incriminating documents and maps. The results of her efforts are based primarily on the amount of warning she has to prepare. Beginning with the round that the imp shouts his alarm or combat with the zombies begins (whichever occurs first), Prisiera's performs specific actions each round until they arrive and enter initiative with the inhabitants of Area P:
Round 1. Prisiera issues brief instructions to her guard, moves to her desk, grabs her haversack, and casts mage armor on herself.
Round 2. Prisiera packs her personal journal in her haversack and begins to sort through the remaining documents on the desk.
Round 3. she retrieves her orders from Rath Modar and secures them in her haversack.
Round 4. she casts invisibility on the Thayan knight or the cultist.
Round 5+. Prisiera continues to rummage through the desk to ensure that no incriminating evidence remains.
FOES & TACTICS
At the beginning of combat, Prisiera is 20 feet away from teleportation circle set into the floor. On her turn, she moves to the circle and teleports away as a bonus action. she has no interest in fighting the adventurers. she has important work to do. Prisiera is an accomplished mage and unless the adventurers are able to kill or incapacitate her or prevent her from speaking, she escapes. Even if physically restrained, she uses misty step to reach to the circle and teleport away. On her turn after the adventurers arrive, read:
The necromancer steps into a circle of silver runes on the floor and after muttering a single word, is enveloped in a blinding flash of green light. When your eyes clear, the woman is nowhere to be seen.
The Thayan knight carries a vial of poison and if she begins a turn at 5 hit points or less, consumes it; killing her instantly.
Cassyt
Until this point, she has mostly been assisting the party as a guide and casting an occasional cantrip. However, upon seeing the wizard who is responsible for creating the undead, she becomes furious.
In the first round of combat, she casts bless on the three characters that she feels have performed the best in the adventure so far.
On the second round of combat; If there are any undead present in the encounter, Cassyt has a single use of Turn Undead that she uses.
In subsequent rounds, she casts sacred flame, saving her two remaining 1st-level spell slots to cast cure minor wounds as needed. She prefers to attack the wizard if she is present, and the undead if she is not.
TURN UNDEAD
As an action, Cassyt presents her holy symbol and speaks a prayer censuring the undead. Each undead that can see or hear her within 30 feet of her must make a Wisdom saving throw. If the creature fails its saving throw, it is turned for I minute or until it takes any damage. A turned creature must spend its turns trying to move as far away from her as it can, and it can't willingly move to a space within 30 feet of her. It also can't take reactions. For its action, it can use only the Dash action or try to escape from an effect that prevents it from moving. If there's nowhere to move, the creature can use the Dodge action.
If characters are triumphant and explore the inner chambers of the area, they find a modestsized room, appointed in the furnishings of living quarters—a few straw pallets, a couple chests (full of mundane personal belongings), and a table with a few chairs—all in complete disarray. Furniture has been turned over and upset, papers are strewn all about the room. Among them, only a set of maps of the catacombs are of any interest. The maps are labeled in Draconic. If the adventurers are unable to translate them, Doomguide Glandon offers to do so, even going so far as to say that they are the most accurate set of maps of the catacombs that he has ever seen and asks to keep them.
There is also narrow tunnel that exits this area toward the southeast. It proceeds for about 60 feet before it appears ends in a wall of stone and rubble. This tunnel appears on the maps found by the adventurers, labeled (in Draconic) with an arrow pointing further east and a single word—"Pool"
If the cultist is captured alive, he does not willingly divulge any of their secrets. Any punishment that the Cult might mete out for his betrayal would be far worse than anything the adventurers are likely willing to do. Any questions are met with an insult, acmouthful of spittle, or—more likely both. If compelled to speak, by use of charm person or similar ability, he knows only that he was sent to Coawood to assist Prisiera in creating an army of undead. Once done, they were to use the undead to dig towards the Pool of Radiance.
While the adventurers were occupied fighting, Monforoth was busy packing her haversack with any items that he felt might implicate the Red Wizards. If he escapes, he takes her haversack with him. In the unlikely event that he is killed or captured before teleporting away, however, her pack contains a journal containing rather shocking information about the wizards's plans to assist the Cult of the Orcus in summoning Orcus. Additionally, there are a set of documents that charge Prisiera with creating a host of undead in the catacombs beneath Coawood Cemetery and to use them to dig their way south and east beneath in an attempt to locate the Pool of Radiance.
There are extensive maps and calculations done that estimate the general direction, depth and distance that he must dig to end up where the Pool is believed to be.
At this point, however, the adventurers have identified the source of the undead. With a little more work, and some assistance from the adventurers, the Kelemvorites are able to destroy the undead that remain.
TREASURE
In the back room, Prisiera kept a lockbox containing 500 gp in various types of coins. Additionally, he left behind a fine writing set in the desk worth 75 gp. The Thayan knight has a pouch with 45 gp in it and the cult fanatic has a pouch containing 25 gp.
##23. Ceredwin
Just as your done in the room and are ready to return you feel a rush of wind and a familiar woman appears before you. You see a woman with colored glasses, a flowing blue robe that has a hood pulled over her curly brown hair. She has several books floating around her and she is currently reading one.
Cassyt immediately falls to her knees and bows before this woman, "Mi'Lady she says", before she stops moving, almost eerily still.
"My words are only for the heroes today" the woman says.
You recognize her a Ceredwin, the goddess of magic that you met at the ley line.
I did not think that I would be seeing you again this quickly. This time I'm afraid that I need your help. I need you to destroy the pool of radiance that that man was seeking, and unfortunately you (she points to Rowan) are the man to do it.
She cannot destroy the pool herself, she is the goddess of magic and that would be againt her domain, but if it isn't destroyed they will come back for it again and from it they will claw their way to the weave. It has already been seperated from the weave so she doesn't fear any repercussions from destroying it.
This task might very well kill Rowan, this is not a command, but a request, and the part can say no. She cannot guarentee his life, only that his sacrifice would deal a huge blow to the timeline for this cult.
Rowan was selected for this task because he drank the anti-magic liquid. He can go bathe in the pool and cancel out the power, but being in the middle if that "canceling" is not the safest place to be. In addition, even if he survives that, he will still have to deal with the mercury poisoning, even moreso since it will have completely broken down by then.
If they refuse then she will let them go, they will recieve no favor from her, and the cult will merely find another way to the pool.
If they accept then they can destroy the pool. After they succeed she will appear before them again and grant them one answer to any question that it is within her power to reveal. They will also have her favor going forward, and the cult will have a major setback to their timeline.
##24. CONCLUSION
With the adventurers successful in discovering the source of the undead within the catacombs, their work is done. While Doomguide Glandon insinuates that their assistance would be helpful in clearing out the Necropolis of undead. He is dismayed at the mention of a wizard in the catacombs, and even more so at the map's mention of a "pool". He goes so far to reveal that the arrow likely points in the direction of Valjevo Keep, but stops before guessing as to what the caption actually refers to.
Their task done, he thanks the adventurers for their work and begs the character's leave—saying he has much to discuss with his fellow clergy and the ruling council.
Cassyt is Still Alive.
Doomguide Glandon is also especially pleased with Cassyt's recounting of the events that transpired. As recognition of her efforts in the defeat of the Necromancer, Doomguide Glandon inducts Cassyt into the Most Solemn Order of the Silent Shroud; the formal clergy of Kelemvor.
Ceredwin
