drew to a close, let us again turn our sights back to the unsung heroes who gave their lives not for the dragons, but for those of us that had to live in this world. One such hero is Demonrage Haveron.
While there were many heroes born from the war, none were more renown among the citizens of Coalog (later Coawood), as stark contrast to the rest of the world who has never heard of him. For reasons you will soon see, I have given him the honor of being first in my list of heroes.
Haveron may not be a hero for fighting in the dragon war, but he fought an even worse foe. A dastardly and cunning demon who sought to bring his master, Orcus, into this world. This demon was born into this world by the death and destruction that had befallen it. The great powers of the dragons were not only destroying the world, but were soon to destroy all. The demon in his quest to summon his master had found a place of great magical power, a place said to contain the power of magic itself! He collected this power into a pool and bathed himself in it, using himself as a catalyst to summon his master.
But! It was at this moment that Haveron chose to attack! He fought a long and hard battle. He knew that this fight would take his life. He Knew that this demon was a foe beyond him. Yet still he went to fight. Yet in the end Haveron was victorious, he took on the demon and saved the world.
So who was this Haveron? Where did he come from? Was he a normal man who grew to power? Or was he gifted from the gods beforehand just for this purpose? Scholars still debate his origins, but

in the end just a precursor.
The Dragon War was a time of great upheaval and distress. For centuries the 5 great dragons had coexisted in peace, ruling over their sections of the world. That is until Melkor, one of the 5 great dragons, and the only one who was a lich, decided to expand his territory one day and attacked. The war that followed spanned several years and nearly took the planet itself to its knees. The power of the great dragons rivaled that of the gods if the stories are to be believed.
For example Melkor seems to have the ability to spontaneously create undead from corpses around him. So as you fought his army then every casualty would raise again and fight for the enemy.  A terrifying ability in it’s own right, but his followers also seemed to possess the ability to summon legions of undead.
Legend tells of a mage who came to Coawood one day, on death's door, famished, and beaten. He was taken in by the kind people there and nourished back to health. Their kindness wasn’t repaid however as his first act after recovering was to perform some magic ritual in a cave under the city that summoned an army of undead. They washed through the city and nearly took it to the brink of destruction.
There are examples of God like feats from the other Great Dragons and their followers as well. Take the fearsome Lady Thundrous for example: Legend says that she had the ability to

of Theonfore.
Another example of the destruction that befell the world was the eruptions of the mountains to the east of Stormpieke. Having shown no signs of volcanic activity, one day the mountains erupted, spraying rocks as far as Mirstone and covering the sky for weeks. The effects on the local area were devastating and the aftermath, especially the famine, was long lasting.
Furthermore there was the great flood of Alastead. The sea suddenly rose up and swallowed the whole city.
Or the earthquakes that nearly shattered the land Kalaste.
Or the tempests that never ended above the Sea of Dathon.
Or the collapsing mountains of Vortice.
Or the magic cyclones on the planes of Eowyn.
The list goes on and on. For a full list see my other work, “The Natural Disaster of The Dragon War: Natural or Not?”. A quick summation here to say that the great disasters that appeared around the world during this time do not appear to have been purposeful on the part of the Dragons in that they were not explicitly causing them. But their implicit acceptance must be obvious as they did nothing to stop them and second handedly caused them by their war. As near as this author can tell the disasters were caused by the lingering magic energies left behind as the Great Dragons clashed. With nowhere to go it seeped into the world, warping it, and explosively releasing itself through the mechanisms that nature granted it.
